CI-8553 - GCP, AWS, Azure vms no docker-compose (#2577)
harness/developer-hub: docs/continuous-integration/use-ci/set-up-build-infrastructure/vm-build-infrastructure/define-a-ci-build-infrastructure-in-azure.md

helpdocs_is_private: false
helpdocs_is_published: true
---

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

:::note
Currently, this feature is behind the Feature Flag `CI_VM_INFRASTRUCTURE`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

This topic describes how to set up a CI build infrastructure in Microsoft Azure by creating a VM and installing a Harness Delegate and Drone VM Runner on it. The delegate creates VMs dynamically in response to CI build requests.

This is one of several CI build infrastructure options. For example, you can also [set up a Kubernetes cluster build infrastructure](../k8s-build-infrastructure/set-up-a-kubernetes-cluster-build-infrastructure.md).

The following diagram illustrates a CI build farm. The [Harness Delegate](/docs/platform/delegates/delegate-concepts/delegate-overview) communicates directly with your Harness instance. The [VM Runner](https://docs.drone.io/runner/vm/overview/) maintains a pool of VMs for running builds. When the delegate receives a build request, it forwards the request to the runner, which runs the build on an available VM.

> ![](../static/define-a-ci-build-infrastructure-in-azure-16.png)

Author: I will change them all the Harness Manager.

For the Azure graphic, I think they should all be inside an Azure cloud box. I am not sure why there is new information provided in this graphic that is not present elsewhere on the page. All of the instructions assume your delegate/runner machine is an Azure VM.

   * The VM must allow ingress access on ports 22 and 9079.
   * You must also open port 3389 if you want to run Windows builds and be able to RDP into your build VMs.

   For more information about Azure machine images, go to the [Drone documentation on Azure drivers](https://docs.drone.io/runner/vm/drivers/azure/).

2. Create an Azure Application with the Owner role assigned to your delegate VM.

   To assign a role to your VM, log in to Azure, go to [Virtual Machines](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Compute%2FVirtualMachines), select your VM, and go to **Access Control (IAM)**.

3. Make sure the Azure Application is a Contributor on the subscription.

## Set Up the Delegate VM

1. Log in to Azure, go to [Virtual Machines](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Compute%2FVirtualMachines), and then launch the delegate VM.
2. [Install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/vm-vdi/) on the VM.

> 3. [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) on the VM. You must have [Docker Compose version 3.7](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-versioning/#version-37) or higher installed.

Reviewer: There are some customer who use docker compose for installing delegate and runner. We should keep it I guess.

      tenant_id: XXXXXX ## Your Directory ID. Required for the runner to be able to create new VMs.
    location: eastus2 ## To minimize latency, use the same region as the delegate VM.
    size: Standard_F2s
    tags:
      tagName: tag
    image:
      username: XXXXXXX
      password: XXXXXXX
      publisher: MicrosoftWindowsServer
      offer: WindowsServer
      sku: 2019-Datacenter-with-Containers
      version: latest
```

```mdx-code-block
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

### Pool settings reference

You can configure the following settings in your `pool.yml` file. You can also learn more in the Drone documentation for the [Pool File](https://docs.drone.io/runner/vm/configuration/pool/) and [Azure drivers](https://docs.drone.io/runner/vm/drivers/azure/).

:::info

The `account` settings (`client_id`, `client_secret`, `subscription_id`, and `tenant_id`) are required to allow the runner to create new VMs.

:::

| Setting | Type | Example | Description |
| ------- | ---- | ------- | ----------- |
| `name` | String | `name: windows_pool` | Unique identifier of the pool. You will need to specify this pool name in the Harness Manager when you set up the CI stage build infrastructure. |

> | `pool` | Integer | `pool: 1` | Minimum pool size number. Denotes the minimum number of cached VMs in ready state to be used by the runner. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `pool` | Integer | `pool: 1` | Warm pool size number. Denotes the number of VMs in ready state to be used by the runner. |
```

> | `limit` | Integer | `limit: 3` | Maximum pool size number. Denotes the maximum number of cached VMs in ready state to be used by the runner. |

Reviewer 2: This is the max number of VMs the runner can create at any point in time. These VMs won't be in ready state.

If the pool is 3 and limit is 10 and the runner gets the request for 5 VMs, it would immediately provision the 3 warm VMs and provision 2 more which would take time to initialize.

| `platform` | Key-value pairs, strings | `platform: os: linux arch: amd64 variant: VERSION` | Specify VM platform operating system (`os`) and architecture (`arch`). `variant` is optional. |

> | `spec` | Key-value pairs, various | Go to [pool.yml examples](#poolyml-examples). | Configure settings for the build VMs.<ul><li>`account`: Provide Azure account settings the runner needs to create new VMs:<ul><li>`client_id`: Your Azure application ID. To find the client ID in Azure, go to **App Registrations**, then **Directory (tenant) ID**, and then select your app.</li><li>`client_secret`: To create a client secret, go to your app in Azure, and then select **Certificates and Secrets**.</li><li>`subscription_id`: To find the subscription ID in Azure, go to [Virtual Machines](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Compute%2FVirtualMachines) and select your delegate VM.</li><li>`tenant_id`: Your Directory ID. To find the tenant ID in Azure, go to **App Registrations**, then **Directory (tenant) ID**, and then select your app.</li></ul></li><li>`image`: The image type to use for the build VM.</li><li>`location`: The Azure region for the build VMs. To minimize latency, use the same region as the delegate VM.</li><li>`size`: The Azure VM size.</li><li>`tag`: You can add an optional tag to identify build VMs.</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: We should also add one row for the `disk` attribute.

## Start the runner and install the delegate

1. [SSH into the delegate VM](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/connect-ssh?tabs=azurecli) and run the following command to start the runner:

	 ```

> 	 $ docker run -v /home/YOUR_NAME/drone-runner-aws/runner:/runner -p 3000:3000 drone/drone-runner-aws:latest  delegate --pool /runner/pool.yml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	 $ docker run -v /runner:/runner -p 3000:3000 drone/drone-runner-aws:latest  delegate --pool /runner/pool.yml
```

I think it should be runner because you created `/runner` directory above.

---
title: Set up a Microsoft Azure VM build infrastructure
description: Set up a CI build infrastructure in Microsoft Azure.
sidebar_position: 20
helpdocs_topic_id: rhs0wi4l0q
helpdocs_category_id: rg8mrhqm95
helpdocs_is_private: false
helpdocs_is_published: true
---

```mdx-code-block
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
```

:::note
Currently, this feature is behind the Feature Flag `CI_VM_INFRASTRUCTURE`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

> This topic describes how to set up a CI build infrastructure in Microsoft Azure. To do this, you will create a VM and install a Harness Delegate and Drone VM Runner on it. The delegate creates VMs dynamically in response to CI build requests. The delegate and runner VM can be inside or outside Azure; however, the instructions on this page assume you will create the VM in Azure.

Reviewer 3: "The delegate creates VMs", this is not true, the Drone VM runner creates vms.
